% INI(1) User Manuals
% Jens John <dev@2ion.de>
% July 21, 2015

# NAME

ini - examine the contents of INI files

# INVOCATION FORMS

`ini` \-h

`ini` [ae:g:G:k:p:sv:V:] [longform\-options] _INI-FILE_

# DESCRIPTION

ini is a tool for examining the contents of files written in the INI
format. It allows to list sections and keys as well as to query the
values stored at a given key. It is possible to find keys whose names or
associated values match a given POSIX or extended regular expression.

# KEY LIST FORMAT

Queries output path-like INI keys in the format

  `${INI_SECTION}:${INI_KEY}`

When passing INI keys to the `-p, --print` option, eventual colons in
file names need to be escaped using a backslash '\\'. The entire key is
lowercased.

Regular expressions will be executed on the whole path-like INI key.
Regular expressions are case-insensitive.

# OPTIONS

Options may be specified using short- or longform arguments. All options
except for `-h` require that a path to an INI file _INI-FILE_ be given,
and all operations will be executed on the given file. The file path
must be always the last item in the command line.

-a, \--list-all-keys
:   List all keys in all sections.

-e, \--exists *KEY*
:   Test if the value at $KEY exists. Return 0 if it does, otherwise
    return 2.

-G, \--egrep *REGEX*
:   List all keys whose names match the given extended regular
    expression. 

-g, \--grep *REGEX*
:   List all keys whose names match the given POSIX regular expression.

-h
:   Print this message and exit.

-k, \--list-keys *SECTION*
:   List all keys in given INI section.

-p, \--print *KEY*
:   Print the value associated with *KEY* and return 0, if no such value
    exists return 2.

-s, --list-sections
:   List all INI sections.

-V, \--egrep-value *REGEX*
:   List all keys the value of which matches the given extended regular
    expression.

-v, \--grep-value *REGEX*
:   List all keys the value of which matches the given POSIX regular
    expression.

# RETURN VALUE

In the case of success, return 0. If _INI-FILE_ doesn't exist, return 1.
If a given *KEY* couldn't be found, return 2.

# SEE ALSO

**grep**(1), **regex**(3), **regex**(7)

# PROJECT HOMEPAGE

*https://github.com/2ion/ini*
